govee_client
============

This repository contains a set of objects which can be used to control a Govee API v1.2 compatible device. This requires a valid API key, which can be requested by contacting [Govee Support](https://us.govee.com/pages/contact-us).

# Overview
---

This package provides three (3) primary and two (2) supporting objects which the user will need to be concerned with.

Primary:
1. GoveeDevice
2. GoveeClient
3. GoveeHub

The GoveeDevice class represents the physical device and contains all static and dynamic data about the device and the logic to ensure the device functions appropriately.

The GoveeClient class is used to submit HTTP requests to the Govee API. This contains the data and logic necessary to build, format, and submit requests, followed by processing the response.

The GoveeHub class contains an instance of the GoveeClient and an indefinite number of GoveeDevice instances. The hub is used to facilitate submitting API requests and managing the devices registered to the user.

Supporting:
1. Color
2. ColorTemperature

The Color class represents a traditional 3-byte RGB value. This value is sent in an API request to set the color of light emitted by a color compatible light emitting Govee device. The class contains the logic necessary to ensure only appropriate colors can be created.

The ColorTemperature class represents a color corresponding to a star in degrees kelvin. This value is sent in an API request to set the color of light emitted by a temperature compatible light emitting Govee device. This class contains the logic necessary to ensure only a permitted color temperature is set.

This is a simple package to allow Govee API compatible devices to integrate with Home Assistant.

## Dependencies
---

* Python 3.8 (Minimum version required)
  * requests (2.0.0)
  * uuid (1.0.0)
  * json (included in Python by default)
  * re (included in Python by default)
* Govee API Key
* Govee API compatible device(s)

## Usage

The user will need to create an instance of the `GoveeClient` class, this will require an API key, provided by Govee Support.

```python
from govee_api import GoveeClient, GoveeHub, GoveeDevice

api_key = #Whatever your API key is, as a string.
client = GoveeClient(api_key)
```

After this the user will need to instantiate a `GoveeHub` object, passing the `GoveeClient` object as a parameter.  Once the hub has been created, the user will need to call the `get_devices` method in order to automatically generate `GoveeDevice` objects.

```python
hub = GoveeHub(GoveeDevice, client)
hub.get_devices()
```

The `get_devices` method triggers a request to the API which returns all devices which are registered to the user's Govee account. These devices can be accessed via the `devices` property, which holds a .

```python
for device_id in hub.devices:
    print(f"{device_id} - {hub.devices[device_id]}")
```

This will print out something approximating the text below.

```
3d:62:7c:a6:a1:0b:b9:8c - <__main__.GoveeDevice object at 0x7f7b87802fa0>
59:e4:7c:a6:a1:09:42:9d - <__main__.GoveeDevice object at 0x7f7b87802fa0>
11:a3:7c:a6:a1:39:a0:47 - <__main__.GoveeDevice object at 0x7f7b87bde490>
```

Once the user has their desired devices, they have access to up to four (4) different methods they may use to interact with the light.
* `set_power_state`
* `set_brightness`
* `set_color`
* `set_color_temp`

Before we proceed, we'll declare a few values, for easy reference. These represent the IDs for devices, as provided by Govee. These are used to identify each `GoveeDevice` object generated by the hub.

```python
livingroom_light_id = "3d:62:7c:a6:a1:0b:b9:8c"
bedroom_light_id = "59:e4:7c:a6:a1:09:42:9d"
kitchen_light_id = "11:a3:7c:a6:a1:39:a0:47"
```

The user is able to turn a device on and off by running the commands below. These

```python
# Turn the livingroom light off
hub.set_power_state(livingroom_light_id, GOVEE_STATE_OFF)

# Turn the bedroom light on
hub.set_power_state(bedroom_light_id, GOVEE_STATE_ON)

# Turn the kitchen light on
hub.set_power_state(kitchen_light_id, GOVEE_STATE_OFF)
```

The user is able to set the brightness of a device by running the commands below.

```python

# Set the livingroom light to half brightness
hub.set_brightness(livingroom_light_id, GOVEE_BRIGHTNESS_MAX / 2)

# Set the bedroom light to minimum brightness
hub.set_brightness(bedroom_light_id, GOVEE_BRIGHTNESS_MIN)

# Set the kitchen light to full brightness
hub.set_brightness(kitchen_light_id, GOVEE_BRIGHTNESS_MAX)
```

The user is able to set the color of a device by running the commands below.

```python

# Set the livingroom light to blue
hub.set_color(livingroom_light_id, b=GOVEE_COLOR_MAX)

# Set the bedroom light to purple
hub.set_color(bedroom_light_id, r=GOVEE_COLOR_MAX, b=GOVEE_COLOR_MAX)

# Set the kitchen light to teal
hub.set_color(kitchen_light_id, r=GOVEE_COLOR_MAX / 2, g=GOVEE_COLOR_MAX / 2, b=GOVEE_COLOR_MAX / 2)
```

The user is able to set the temperature of the color of the light by running the commands below.

```python

# Set the livingroom light a yellowish (standard incandescent light)
hub.set_color_temp(livingroom_light_id, 2400)

# Set the bedroom light a cool white light (compact fluorescent)
hub.set_color_temp(bedroom_light_id, GOVEE_BRIGHTNESS_MIN)

# Set the kitchen light to a bright white light (commercial/industrial lighting)
hub.set_color_temp(kitchen_light_id, GOVEE_BRIGHTNESS_MAX)
```

All interactions with devices will be facilitated via the hub. This minimizes the amount of direct interaction with the devices the user need have.

These methods correspond to the device commands listed below. These are the commands which the Govee API recognize.
* `turn`
* `brightness`
* `color`
* `colorTem`

### GoveeDevice Information

A `GoveeDevice` object will identify a set of properties which identify the methods a given device supports.

#### Static Properties

Static properties are the properties of `GoveeDevice` objects which may not be modified once the objects have been instantiated. These are used to indicate what the device is and is not capable of.

* `controllable`
* `retrievable`
* `supported_commands`

The `controllable` property indicates whether the device is capable of receiving commands which result in some change of state to the device.

The `retrievable` property indicates whether the user is able to poll the state of the device.

The `supported_commands` property indicates which of the four (4) device commands the device supports.

#### State Properties

State properties are the properties of `GoveeDevice` objects which may change over time and/or are controllable by the user. These properties have predefined values which they may assume.

* `online`
* `power_state`
* `brightness`
* `color`
* `color_temp`

The `online` property may assume the values listed below
* `GOVEE_STATE_ON`
* `GOVEE_STATE_OFF`

The `power_state` property may assume the values listed below
* `GOVEE_ONLINE_TRUE`
* `GOVEE_ONLINE_FALSE`

The `brightness` property may assume the value of any `int` between the values `GOVEE_BRIGHTNESS_MIN` and `GOVEE_BRIGHTNESS_MAX` (inclusive).

The `color` property is an instance of a `Color` object. This object represents the 3-byte RGB value of a color.

The `color_temp` property is an instance of a `ColorTemp` object. This object is used to represent the color temperature light[^1] emitted by a `GoveeDevice` object. This also identifies the minimum and maximum temperatures which a device may

### GoveeClient Information

A `GoveeClient`object is used to facilitate communication between a `GoveeHub` object and the Govee API itself. A user must provide a valid Govee API Key in order to instantiate and utilize the object.

The `GoveeClient` object offers the ability to submit `GET` and `PUT` requests to the API.

#### GoveeClient Properties

The only `GoveeClient` property that exists is `api_key`. This holds the API key the user includes in API requests and is used to validate the request itself.

#### Communication with the Govee API

A user is able to submit requests to the Govee API by using either of the methods below.
* `get_data`
* `put_data`

The `get_data` method includes the parameters listed below.
* `req_uri` - The full URI of the API service endpoint.
* `device_id` - The full device ID of the Govee device.
* `model` - The full model name of the Govee device.

The `put_data` method includes the parameters listed above, as well as the one listed below.
* `req_payload` - The JSON data to be included in the request.

### GoveeHub Information

A `GoveeHub` object is used to facilitate communication between the user, `GoveeClient` objects, and `GoveeDevice` objects. Since 

This will create the hub object the user will use to interact with the `GoveeDevice` objects which represent the physical Govee devices.

### Using as a stand alone product

### Using as a Home Assistant integration

## Additional Comments

[^1] [Color Temperature](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Color_temperature) is used to determine the color of light a `GoveeDevice` will will emit. Since an ideal source will emit a calculable color of light at a given temperature. Temperatures around 2800 K are a warmer yellow while temperatures closer to 8000 K are a cooler bluish.
